Rodeos/Rancher/content/step-5.md, before:

+++
title = "Install cert-manager"
weight = 5
+++

cert-manager is a Kubernetes add-on to automate the management and issuance of TLS certificates from various issuing sources.

The following set of steps will install cert-manager which will be used to manage the TLS certificates for Rancher.

First, we'll add the helm repository for Jetstack

```ctr:Rancher01
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
```

Now, we can install cert-manager:

```ctr:Rancher01
helm install \
  cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager \
  --version v1.11.0 \
  --set installCRDs=true \
  --create-namespace
```

Once the helm chart has installed, you can monitor the rollout status of both `cert-manager` and `cert-manager-webhook`

```ctr:Rancher01
kubectl -n cert-manager rollout status deploy/cert-manager
```

You should eventually receive output similar to:

`Waiting for deployment "cert-manager" rollout to finish: 0 of 1 updated replicas are available...`

`deployment "cert-manager" successfully rolled out`

```ctr:Rancher01
kubectl -n cert-manager rollout status deploy/cert-manager-webhook
```

You should eventually receive output similar to:

`Waiting for deployment "cert-manager-webhook" rollout to finish: 0 of 1 updated replicas are available...`

`deployment "cert-manager-webhook" successfully rolled out`

Commit message:

update rancher to 2.7.9 and cert-manager 1.13.3

Rodeos/Rancher/content/step-5.md, after:

+++
title = "Install cert-manager"
weight = 5
+++

cert-manager is a Kubernetes add-on to automate the management and issuance of TLS certificates from various issuing sources.

The following set of steps will install cert-manager which will be used to manage the TLS certificates for Rancher.

First, we'll add the helm repository for Jetstack and update the local Helm chart repository cache.

```ctr:Rancher01
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update
```

Now, we can install cert-manager:

```ctr:Rancher01
helm install \
  cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager \
  --version v1.13.3 \
  --set installCRDs=true \
  --create-namespace
```

Once the helm chart has installed, you can monitor the rollout status of both `cert-manager` and `cert-manager-webhook`

```ctr:Rancher01
kubectl -n cert-manager rollout status deploy/cert-manager
```

You should eventually receive output similar to:

`Waiting for deployment "cert-manager" rollout to finish: 0 of 1 updated replicas are available...`

`deployment "cert-manager" successfully rolled out`

```ctr:Rancher01
kubectl -n cert-manager rollout status deploy/cert-manager-webhook
```

You should eventually receive output similar to:

`Waiting for deployment "cert-manager-webhook" rollout to finish: 0 of 1 updated replicas are available...`

`deployment "cert-manager-webhook" successfully rolled out`
