Rodeos/HackingKubernetes/content/step-24.md, before:

+++
title = "Installing Kubewarden"
weight = 26
+++

We will now install Kubewarden onto our `Victim01` Kubernetes cluster. The following command will add `kubewarden` as a helm repository.

**Run the following commands on the victim01 VM.**

```ctr
helm repo add kubewarden https://charts.kubewarden.io
```

Next, we can install Kubewarden using `helm install` command. We will install three helm charts.

```ctr
helm install --create-namespace -n kubewarden kubewarden-crds kubewarden/kubewarden-crds
```

```ctr
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-controller kubewarden/kubewarden-controller
```

```ctr
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-defaults kubewarden/kubewarden-defaults
```

This will install kubewarden-crds, kubewarden-controller, and a default PolicyServer on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration (which includes self-signed TLS certs).

Now we need to install the kwctl cmd tool to pull the policies from the a artifacthub.io

```ctr
wget https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl/releases/download/v1.7.0-rc2/default.kwctl-linux-x86_64.kwctl-linux-x86_64.zip
unzip default.kwctl-linux-x86_64.kwctl-linux-x86_64.zip
```

For a easy usage we copy the binary into the `/usr/bin directory`

```ctr
cp kwctl-linux-x86_64 /usr/bin/kwctl
```

Commit message:

Extend Kubewarden steps and fix curl issue
Separate in Step 2 the creation of the docker group into a new command block, because there where often issues with this cpmmand block.
Added the insecure flag to the curl command in Step17
Extend in Step 24 steps to undo NV proctection mode, because if the node is in protected mode we can't install Kubewarden.

Rodeos/HackingKubernetes/content/step-24.md, after:

+++
title = "Installing Kubewarden"
weight = 24
+++

After we secured our cluster with NeuVector, we would also take a look into Kubewarden. Kubewarden is a policy engine for Kubernetes and can extend NeuVector.
We will now install Kubewarden onto our `Victim01` Kubernetes cluster.

First we need to change the protected Mode for the node into discovery and disable Admission Control in NeuVector, that we can run commands on the node and the sample app run again in the cluster.
1. Access NeuVector at [https://neuvector.cattle-neuvector-system.${vminfo:victim01:public_ip}.sslip.io](https://neuvector.cattle-neuvector-system.${vminfo:victim01:public_ip}.sslip.io).
2. To disable, navigate to **Policy -> Admission Control**, and click the **Status** toggle. The status should now be **Disabled**
3. Go to **Policy > Groups** and choose the `nodes` group.
4. Switch the mode of the `nodes` group to `Discover`.

**Run the following commands on the victim01 VM.**

First we will restart the deployment for the sample app that the application will run again. 

```ctr:
kubectl restart rollout deployment sample-app
```

The following command will add `kubewarden` as a helm repository.

```ctr:
helm repo add kubewarden https://charts.kubewarden.io
```

Next, we can install Kubewarden using `helm install` command. We will install three helm charts.

```ctr:
helm install --create-namespace -n kubewarden kubewarden-crds kubewarden/kubewarden-crds
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-controller kubewarden/kubewarden-controller
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-defaults kubewarden/kubewarden-defaults
```
This will install kubewarden-crds, kubewarden-controller, and a default PolicyServer on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration (which includes self-signed TLS certs).

Now we need to install the kwctl cmd tool to pull the policies from the a artifacthub.io

```ctr:
wget https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl/releases/download/v1.7.0-rc2/default.kwctl-linux-x86_64.kwctl-linux-x86_64.zip
sudo apt-get install unzip 
unzip default.kwctl-linux-x86_64.kwctl-linux-x86_64.zip
```

For a easy usage we copy the binary into the `/usr/bin directory`

```ctr:
cp kwctl-linux-x86_64 /usr/bin/kwctl
```
